S16 Burnt Out building
Your nose alerts you to something of interest before you see it. A strong smell of smoke is wafting up from the smouldering remains of what was probably a small house or shop. It has collapsed in upon itself, or been knocked down by fire wardens to prevent the fire from spreading and is now a chaotic pile of broken and burnt timbers, wall sections, tiling and furniture. You have clearly arrived some time after the fire was extinguished as the only people paying attention to this mess at the moment are you and a few soot covered children picking away at the wreckage. There are no immediate signs of the former occupants. What would you like to do?
● This is just some sort of domestic accident, not of any interest - move on to your next encounter.
● Some poor family lost their home today. Talking to the children you find out that they know them, so you offer a couple of gold pieces from your pouch, trusting them to pass it on. Deduct 2 GP from your inventory. Word of your generosity spreads fast and you may add +2 to your next Etiquette test in this settlement.
● Maybe these children are onto something? Pulling a bit of cloth across your face you start to hunt around in the wreckage. Make an Awareness Skill test. If you succeed you find a keepsake worth 1sp. Taking your loot you sidle off, leaving behind a trail of ash and smuts. You may want to clean your boots at some point.
● Perhaps the gods will help? You stop, get down to your knees and spend a few minutes in thoughtful prayer, asking the gods to intercede. Roll 1d6 - on a roll of 5 or 6, this house will be rebuilt as a workshop (encounter M26) within 2d6 days. You may choose the type of workshop and will always receive a 20% discount when using its services.

