# Introduction

In this chapter we show how to create a map of a city, town or village to use for a number of purposes - a self-directed campaign, adventures generated by dice rolling, as support for your own campaign or even as a setting for a contest between Characters to see who can be first to complete a mission or quest! Using these rules will allow you to generate a functioning settlement filled with encounters and alive with adversaries you must defeat to prove yourself a Character.
It is important to note that however you use the book, it's up to you to use your imagination to fill in the gaps and make sense of the world. The descriptions given for the locations and encounters should be seen as guides that allow you to play the role of the Character and if you feel that something should be changed to better fit your campaign, you should change it.
For those using these rules to generate a playable campaign, the steps are as follows.
• Decide on a place for your settlement. Look at
the map of Titan and pick an area that is currently blank on the map. When you think of your city, you should consider the terrain - is it high in the mountains, with buildings made of stone and heaving under the weight of snowfall, or down in a pleasant valley surrounded by orchards?
• Use the rules provided to generate a map of your
settlement.
• Pick a place for you to start - this could be at the
city gates if you want to be a stranger, or at a tavern if you want your Character to start off as someone who has already visited the settlement.
• Use either the villains (Chapter 9) or missions
(Chapter 10) to begin your quest.
• Start adventuring!
Some Important definitions
As a reminder, when building our settlement we will be using the following terms:
• Settlement - the city, town or village you are
building and using for your adventures.
• Location - the places within this settlement; ie
the inn, temple, keep and so on. This is not just one building, but a district within your settlement which has an important building or function.
• Social skills - Etiquette, Con, Leadership,
Bargain, affected by Social Rank.
• Encounter - a randomly generated encounter,
usually based on the location and divided into social, challenge or map encounters. In general social encounters can usually be dealt with peacefully, challenge encounters require you to use your skills to avoid harm and map encounters add a location to your map.
