C12 Mass Brawl!
You were lost in your thoughts for once and had barely noticed a commotion starting in the people nearby. Something about cabbages and a goat perhaps? You have no time to find out as you are startled by the whoosh of half-brick as it passes within an inch of your face. Suddenly very awake you realise that whatever the argument was, it has descended into a mass brawl, with people swinging fists, clubs, chairs or whatever else comes to hand - you see a plump washerwoman give someone a hard crack to the side of the head with her chamberpot and duck just in time to avoid getting covered by its contents. You have seconds to decide what to do!
●This is madness! You look around for a quiet spot and start to duck and dive your way towards it. Test against your Dodge three times. Each time you fail, you take one point of STAMINA damage as you get clunked by a fist or foot. Once you have made the tests you have successfully wriggled your way into a hiding spot and can wait until the brawl ends.
● Wahey! This is what you've been looking for - you enthusiastically join in with the violence, swinging left right and centre with a huge grin plastered on your face. The brawl is fought as if it was a single creature with SKILL 8, using a Club as its damage type. It has no STAMINA score (injured participants crawl off) but keep track of how much damage you do each round. You must fight for six rounds before it dissipates - if you do more damage to the brawl than it has done to you, everyone is highly impressed and your next Con or Leadership roll gains a +2 bonus.
● Someone could get killed over cabbages? You let out a mighty roar and and bellow at them demanding they come to their senses and stop fighting. Make a
Leadership or Law roll. If you succeed, the crowd puts down its weapons and skulks off. Gain +1 to your next Leadership roll due to newfound confidence. If you fail, you are subject to a barrage of objects - take 1d6 points of STAMINA damage as you flee - move to a new location on your map.

