# The Gods of Good

**Source:** CB77003 - Titan, Pages 45-47

**Page Images:**

- [View Page 45](../../CB77003%20-%20Titan_Pages/page_0045.png)
- [View Page 46](../../CB77003%20-%20Titan_Pages/page_0046.png)
- [View Page 47](../../CB77003%20-%20Titan_Pages/page_0047.png)

## Overview

When you set off on your travels around the world, you will come across members of other races. To some of you this will not seem unusual, for in your parts of the world you may rub shoulders with [Dwarfs](Dwarfs-The-Delvers-of-the-Deep.md), [Elves](Elves-The-Children-of-Galana.md) and others as a matter of course. But for many of you, talk of such creatures, and of worse things such as [Orcs](../The-Forces-of-Evil-and-Chaos/Orcs-The-Warriors-of-Evil.md), [Goblins](../The-Forces-of-Evil-and-Chaos/Goblins-The-Children-of-Evil.md), [Lizard Men](../The-Forces-of-Evil-and-Chaos/The-Lizard-Men-of-the-Southern-Jungles.md) or even [Dark Elves](../The-Forces-of-Evil-and-Chaos/Dark-Elves-Servants-of-the-Night.md), will be unusual and may even be terrifying. The following sections, therefore, aim to provide you with more information about your fellow creatures. They will warn you whom to be wary of, and whom you can trust on your travels – for there will be races everywhere who will appear to offer friendship, shelter and safety, but who will just as quickly stick a dagger in your back. You will quickly learn who is who on your travels, but it is perhaps wise to have some idea of the ways of the world before you leave your front door.

The Forces of Good, with whom we start, are more of a 'tendency' than an established power bloc. There are no organized armies of Good in the same way as there are armies of Evil and Chaos, for example. But there are races who follow the gods of Goodness, such as [Dwarfs](Dwarfs-The-Delvers-of-the-Deep.md) and [Elves](Elves-The-Children-of-Galana.md), who may be thought of as races allied to the cause. And there are individuals in this world who stand up for Good against an overwhelming tide of ignorance and malice, and who will be able to offer aid or advice to one such as yourself when you are hard pressed by the Forces of Evil.

The lands of Titan are still wild and uncivilized, with few centres of learning remaining after the [War of the Wizards](../History-and-Legend/The-War-of-the-Wizards.md), and most lands are ruled by a combination of strength, ignorance and fear, if they are ruled at all. Only a few exceptions cling hard to the path of Good – such as Analand, which has to cower behind a massive wall to protect it from other nations, and the old kingdom of Ximoran, now slowly crumbling as its people isolate themselves in their walled cities. In their quest for peace, most nations allow the worshipping of all the gods, whatever their philosophies: only a very brave ruler would have the courage to tell the worshippers of Slangg, for example, that they are no longer permitted to kill other citizens! But in small corners of the world, the worship of the more peaceful gods goes on – quietly maybe, but at least they are remembered.

## The Gods of Good

You have already read of the events of the [Godtime](../History-and-Legend/In-the-Beginning.md), when, according to many modern priests and scholars of mythology, the gods created Titan and then battled with Death and his foul minions for its control, until Time was released and then killed in an ironic reversal of his own powers over mortality. After the Banishing, all the gods returned to the Celestial Court with the exception of [Logaan the Trickster](../The-Neutral-Forces/Lord-Logaan-the-Trickster.md) and a few of his cohorts, who stayed on Titan and watched over the rise of his creation, Man. Many of the gods of Good still gather in the Celestial Court to watch over their world, but some have now left the palace for their own domains. Pangara, god of winds, and Sukh, god of storms, for example, now dwell on the Elemental Planes with other creatures of air. [Hydana](../The-Underwater-Kingdoms/The-Children-of-Hydana.md), god of the waters, has dwelt at the bottom of the ocean since before time began.

## The Celestial Court Divided

There are two main parts to the Celestial Court. One is made up of the original gods who helped create parts of the world of Titan, and who still govern its physical aspects. But there are also newer gods, who came into being around the time of the Banishing. Before the [First Battle](../History-and-Legend/The-War-of-the-Wizards.md) they were minor deities (their evil counterparts, Slangg and Tanit, served Death on the side of Evil at the First Battle), but since the rise of mankind and the other civilized races they have grown in stature and influence. These new gods govern emotions rather than physical things, and they sit in judgement over the actions of all intelligent beings in a part of the Celestial Court known as the Hall of Mind.

## The Hall of Mind

They are eight in number, and they are led by Sindla, the goddess of luck and fate, who is also a member of the other part of the Celestial Court and who is sister to Titan, the Father of the World. She is known by many names in different lands. In wild Kakhabad they call her Cheelah; in nearby Ruddlestone and unruly Brice she is Gredd. In northern Allansia she is Avana; in Frostholm she is Lady Luck or Mistress Fate (and sometimes represented as two separate entities); in Arantis she is Zaragillia, and she is worshipped, along with Galana, goddess of plants and fertility, by all those who depend for their livelihood on the regular floods of the River Eltus. In other parts of the world she is Castis, Bismen or Juvenar. Wherever she is known, she is worshipped, and is a favourite god for appeals and blessings. 'May Cheelah protect you' or 'Walk with Sindla as your guide' are common sayings, and every nation has similar ones.

Her daughter is Libra, goddess of justice and truth. Also known as Sicalla, Bersten and Macalla, among many other names, she is the patron goddess of Analand and of a number of smaller lands. Under her watchful eye, an adventurer will be shown all aspects of the world, for Libra is said to understand all aspects of both Good and Evil, Law and Chaos, and to be able to see the reality behind any conflict. She is a powerful goddess, and is worshipped by many common people, who need her protection. She is usually portrayed as a beautiful woman holding aloft a set of balances in one hand, with her other hand raised in admonishment or blessing (it is a source of discussion among her priests as to which she is portraying).

Asrel, known also as Culacara, Jerez and Ooraseel, and by many other names, is the goddess of beauty and love. She is sister to Libra and Usrel, goddess of peace, and is also related to Galana, but is rarely worshipped these days. The local village witch may make offerings to Asrel for you if you want a love-potion made, but few other humans worship her, though all know her name.

Usrel is the goddess of peace, sister to Asrel and Libra and mother of Courga, god of grace, and Fourga, god of pride. She is worshipped most fervently in war-torn lands, where besieged citizens entreat her to end the fighting. She is also known by the names Liriel, Enkala, Ageral and Westrea, and is most often portrayed as a motherly figure, her arms spread wide as if to enfold the world in peace.

Her children are, as we said, Courga and Fourga, the twin gods of grace and pride. They are said to be opposing gods, who fight each other to produce different degrees of pride and humility in the characters of people. Various myths tell the story of their conflict, but none make much sense. The name of Fourga, especially, is also subject to a good deal of abuse, as pride is rarely considered a virtue any more. In places such as Khare, the vile city of thieves and cut-throats in wild Kakhabad, Fourga is portrayed as a vengeful god, who wreaks great retribution on those who are over-proud. His priests preach at great and tedious length that pride comes from within, and should not be confused with arrogance or pretensions – but few of their people seem to take much notice. Their son is Telak, god of courage, who is sometimes also associated with Rogaar, the lord of lions, and who is often portrayed as a lion or a Dragon, or as a hefty warrior armed and ready for battle. He is the patron of all warriors and professional mercenaries – many, you will find, bear the golden sword which is his symbol tattooed on the backs of the hand which grips their own weapon. His name is common to many parts of the world, though he is also known as the Shield-bearer, the Swordbearer and the Warrior.

The final member of the Hall of Mind is Hamaskis, god of learning. He is another who is also a member of the Celestial Court itself, and is the patron of all scholars and sorcerers (including the authors of this book). He is usually depicted either as an elderly man or as a fresh-faced youth, preaching wisdom from a book which he holds open before him. He is also known as Serion or Tyralar in other lands, but his worship is restricted to those lands where knowledge is a virtue: in uncivilized lands Hamaskis is not known, and the Hall of Mind has only seven occupants.

## The Other Gods

In the main chamber of the Celestial Council, the other gods and goddesses watch over the physical aspects of the world of Titan. There are a great many gods, and each is served by lesser gods and demigods, drawn from their own children, legendary heroes who have ascended to the heavens to sit with the gods and so on. The 'elder statesman' of all the gods is Titan, Father of the World, always represented as a very old man, with a benevolent smile playing on his lips but a stern look in his deep eyes. Few worship him, but all know of him and offer pleas for his blessing almost as commonly as they entreat his sister, Sindla, for good luck.

Titan has many children. His daughter Galana is goddess of plants and fertility, and is the patron of farmers and [Elves](Elves-The-Children-of-Galana.md), whom she is said to have created. She is also known as Erillia, Kachasta, Zaran or the Gardener in other parts of the world. At planting and harvest times, most farmers partake of a special ceremony in worship of Galana, where seed and scythes are blessed and everyone present prays that she will look kindly upon them and grant them a good harvest. She is also associated with Varantar, the patron of shepherds, and a character known as the Ploughman, both of whom seem to be either her children, or minor gods under her protection.

Throff, the earth goddess (also called Alishanka, Kerellim and by many other names), is her sister, and is the major deity of the [Dwarfs](Dwarfs-The-Delvers-of-the-Deep.md), who revere her and construct shrines in her honour in their bejewelled subterranean cities. Her husband is Filash, god of fire, the brother of Glantanka, the sun goddess. Their children include Verlang, patron of smelters and metal-workers, and Lorodil, god of volcanoes, who is sometimes associated with Chaos but is in fact a very Lawful god.

## The Rune of Good

Magical power is often derived from the application of powerful runes which represent the symbolic qualities of the force one is trying to manipulate. They also serve as badges of allegiance. The Rune of Good is an arrow, signifying one purpose, one will, the path of Goodness.
